Here's our shop and I created three products behind the scenes, so you can of course create any three products
on one or more user accounts, doesn't matter, in the end you will have three products.
Now obviously we can absolutely display these three products like this,
nothing wrong with that. But let's say we have hundreds of products,
we would not want to display all these products on one page,
instead we'd like to split them across multiple pages and then somewhere on the page, often at the bottom,
we'd have some controls to go to page one, page two, the next or the previous page
and that is exactly what I want to implement here,
pagination.
Now you can certainly find some third party packages that can help you with that
and these would be fine to use but I will show you how to implement that from scratch on your own because
that is obviously how you learn the most.
So back in our project, how can we implement pagination?
Well typically, you handle this
as I said by adding some controls which always leads to the same path.
so always /products or slash
nothing
but then you add a query parameter, remember query parameters are these parameters you add after a questionmark
which allow you to specify optional data and there you could specify something like page equals one to load
the first page or page equals two to load the second page and you would change these query parameters with these
controls you add.
Let me show you what I mean.
I will go into my views folder and let's work on that slash, so on that root route,
so that index.ejs file here and there at the bottom beneath my products
but inside of that first if block, so where I know that I have some products, in there I'll add a new section.
I'll give it a class of pagination because this will be the section where I manage the pagination
and my idea is to have a link here which says 1 for Page 1 and 2 for Page 2
and here I would go to slash and have page equal to one let's say and here, page equal to two.
So here I would set a query parameter to value one or respectively, to value two.
If I save this and reload, we can see that on the left here,
now let's change the styling real quick.
So for that, I'll go into my public folder, css and there the main css file and I'll scroll all the way
to the bottom right before that media query, I'll add pagination so that class I added to the section
and I'll set text align to center and I'll also style my links.
This is of course totally optional but I will style my anchor tags in there to have no text decoration,
so to not be underlined. I'll give them a color of let's say my green which I'm using in this project,
I will also add some padding of let's say .5rem and give them a border of one pixel solid and that same
green color and also some margin of 1rem left and right,
something like this. If I now save that, I have these buttons here.
Now one more thing, on the whole pagination section, I'll add a margin top of 2rem and I also want
to make sure my buttons have some hover style, so pagination a hover and pagination a
active sets these styles when I hover over them or when I click on them and there, I will set a background
of this green color and change the text color to white.
Now this is all optional,
I just want to have some stylings here for my buttons.
So now we have these buttons and if I click one of them, you can see the url changes,
it's the same path, just slash nothing but I have an optional parameter in there.
Now with that set up here, let's now see how we can work with that parameter on the backend to control
the data we are fetching.